WELCOME TO THE JANUARY 16TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
MEETING OF AN URBAN PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED AGENDA MEETING
PROVIDED MR. LEONARD WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
YES.
HAPPY TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER LEE
HERE.
COMMISSIONER EVANS HERE.
COMMISSIONER WHITECHURCH HERE.
COMMISSIONER ELSE HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAPPY TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR MR. LETTER HERE
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YEAH COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> GREAT THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA OF FURTHER MOVES BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER THIS IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I I AM OPPOSED
SEEING ONE MOTION CARRIES I
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF DECEMBER I BELIEVE
IT'S NINETEENTH.
>> I'M SORRY.
UH, DECEMBER NINETEEN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER OH I'M SORRY LONG
APRIL.
THANK YOU.
IT'S BEEN A LONG DAY SO LONG
I'VE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES UH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION THEY SAY I HAVE
ANY OPPOSED MOTION CARRIES I'M
SORRY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS I
KEEP TRYING TO SAY ELLIE.
>> NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION COUNCIL NO
DISH YOU HAVE REPORT I HAVE
NOTHING TO REPORT.
>> THERE WAS A MEETING BUT IT
CONTAINED PLANNING RELATED
ITEMS.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE UPDATE,
MR..
A COUPLE ITEMS OF GENERAL
INTEREST AND OUR SPECIFIC
COMMISSION INTEREST ONE THIS
FRIDAY IS THE OR BICENTENNIAL
KICKOFF CELEBRATION AT MICHIGAN
THEATER.
IT IS A TICKETED EVENT BUT IF
YOU ARE INTERESTED IN THAT
EVENT, PLEASE CHECK IT OUT
TODAY.
ALSO THE CITY ANNOUNCED A
PUBLIC INFORMATION SESSION ON
MONDAY, JANUARY TWENTY NINTH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR FOR A SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED CONFERENCE CENTER,
AN INFORMATION SESSION VERY PRE
PRE TO SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT
REVIEW PROCESS.
BUT IF COMMISSIONERS ARE THE
PUBLIC INTERESTED IN THAT, KEEP
AN EYE OUT THAT BE IN THE CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS AGAIN ON THE
TWENTY NINTH AT SEVEN O'CLOCK
PM AND ALSO HAVE THE ZOOM
OPTION TO WATCH FROM THE COZY
CONFINES OF YOUR COUCH THE E
AND ONLINE IT'S TO PLAN SURVEY
HAS BEEN POSTED IN SPREAD AND
IS AVAILABLE TO THE COMMUNITY.
IT IS AVAILABLE TO ALL AT
PLANNED TO GUBJRG PLAN TWENTY
FOUR NO END DATE TO THAT SURVEY
AT THIS POINT WE WILL PROBABLY
ANNOUNCE AT SOME POINT BUT WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE WE GET A WIDE
RANGING RESPONSE SO JUST TRYING
TO ENCOURAGE AS MUCH VOICES AS
POSSIBLE AND THEN FINALLY ON A
BIT OF A NOTE FOR ALEXIS AND I
ON THE COMMISSION I WANTED TO
SHARE I THINK I ANNOUNCED A
PREVIOUS MEETING THAT CITY
PLANNER CHRIS CHANG WAS
RETIRING.
ADDITIONALLY ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT MCHALE BOTH RETIRED
THIS WEEK.
WELL, WE ARE SO HAPPY FOR THEM
BUT OBVIOUSLY WILL BE CRYING IN
OUR CUBES OCCASIONALLY AS WELL.
SO JUST I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
ALL OF THEIR COMMITMENT TO THE
AND SUPPORT OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND INTO PUBLIC
SERVICE OVER THEIR 10 YEARS
WITH THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT SEEING NONE
WILL MOVE ON TO SECTION NUMBER
SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REPORT
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RACE FEATURE VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED HER HAND USING THE LAST
THREE MINUTES OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME FOUR
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION
OR BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT OR
I'M SORRY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS CLEARLY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION?
>> MR. GARBER, THANK YOU FOR
BRAVING THE WEATHER TODAY AND
JOINING US.
>> NO THANK YOU CHARLIE AND
COMMISSIONER FOR COMING OUT
TONIGHT.
UM, KEN GARBER.
TWENTY EIGHT HAVING COURT
SUBJECT TO MY PUBLIC COMMENT
TONIGHT IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
UM, I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'RE
AWARE PLANNING COMMISSION
PUBLIC HEARINGS MAY SOON BE A
THING OF THE PAST.
THAT'S THE RECOMMENDATION IN
THIS REPORT.
A NEW APPROACH TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
UM, STAFF REPORT THERE WILL
PROBABLY BE A COUNCIL
RESOLUTION IN THE COMING WEEKS
.
THE REPORT GIVES SEVERAL
REASONS.
FIRST, GETTING RID OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING SHAVE TIME OFF
SITE PLAN REVIEW SINCE THEY
MUST BE NOTICED.
FIFTEEN DAYS IN ADVANCE WHILE
REGULAR AGENDA ITEMS ONLY
REQUIRE EIGHTEEN HOURS SO IT
CAN BE ADDED MUCH LATER THIS
SAVES MAYBE TEN DAYS.
THEN THERE'S WHAT I CALL THE
FUTILITY ARGUMENT FROM THE
REPORT QUOTE THERE IS AN
IMPORTANT QUESTION TO BE ASKED
AS TO WHETHER IT IS FAIR TO
INVITE THE PUBLIC TO
PARTICIPATE IN AN ENGAGEMENT
THAT IS EXTREMELY LIKELY TO
RESULT IN ANY MEANINGFUL
CHANGES.
DOING SO CREATES A FALSE
PROMISE TO THE PUBLIC AND TO
LOSE CONFIDENCE IN CITY
GOVERNMENT AND AS A MEMBER
OF THE PUBLIC I FIND THIS
INCREDIBLY CONDESCENDING THAT
HAVING A PUBLIC HEARING IS
UNFAIR TO ME BECAUSE IT GIVES
ME FALSE HOPE THAT I CAN HAVE
INFLUENCE.
SO LET'S ELIMINATE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
I WOULDN'T COME DOWN HERE THIS
OFTEN IF I DIDN'T THINK I COULD
MAKE A DIFFERENCE SORT OF SAY
THEY'RE GETTING RID OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR MY BENEFIT I FIND
DEEPLY OFFENSIVE.
IT SPEAKS TO A DISREGARD FOR
THE PUBLIC THAT'S EVIDENT
THROUGHOUT THIS REPORT.
YES, THERE ARE SOME HANDWAVING
IN HERE ABOUT TIMING PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT EARLIER WHERE IT
CAN ADD VALUE BUT THERE IS NO
PROPOSAL IN HERE TO SCHEDULE A
PUBLIC HEARING EARLIER IN THE
PROCESS.
OUR ROLE IS PRETTY MUCH REDUCED
TO BEING INFORMED ABOUT THE
PROJECT.
YES, WE COULD STILL COME IN AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING
DURING GENERAL COMMENTS I'M
DOING NOW BUT THAT MEANS
CHOOSING BETWEEN THE SITE PLAN
AND OTHER ISSUES.
WE WON'T HEAR THE DEVELOPER AND
STAFF REPORTS FIRST AND WE ONLY
HAVE A FEW DAYS NOTICE TO
PREPARE.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU BUT I
COUNT ON THE TWO WEEKS NOTICE
TO START RESEARCHING A SITE
PLAN.
THE REPORT ARGUES THAT WE HAVE
MONTHS TO BECOME FAMILIAR WITH
THE PROJECT BUT IN REALITY
UNLESS WE LIVE WITHIN 1000 FEET
OF THE SITE THE FIRST MOST
OF US HEAR ABOUT IT I JUST WHEN
IT'S SCHEDULED FOR THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
SO I THINK THIS IS UNDER YOUR
CONTROL.
I URGE YOU TO KEEP THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR PLANS.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO EVEN
BELIEVE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THIS BUT THAT'S WHERE WE
ARE RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS
?
WE DO NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO SECTION
NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC HEARINGS
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING.
>> I DID NOT SEE ANY STAFF DUE
TO THE HOLIDAYS.
WE DID NOT HAVE THOSE
ESTABLISHED BEFORE THE PACKET
WENT OUT.
BUT WE DO HAVE A NEW PUBLIC
HEARING SCHEDULED FOR FEBRUARY
6TH.
THE THERE WILL BE ONE NEW
PUBLIC HEARING ITEM.
IT IS SEVEN ELEVEN CHURCH PD
ZONING AND SITE PLAN.
THIS IS A REQUEST IS ONLY ONE
POINT ONE ACRE SITE FROM OUR
FORESE MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
TO PUDI PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT AND IN SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS TO ALLOW THE
DEVELOPMENT OF UP TO FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET.
ANY SITE PLAN TO CONSTRUCT A
SEVENTEEN STORY APARTMENT
BUILDING WITH DOWN GROUND FOR
COMMERCIAL PRIMARY PROPOSED
PUBLIC BENEFITS TO THE WOULD
INCLUDE CONTRIBUTIONS TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND ENHANCE
SUSTAINABILITY BUILDING WOULD
HAVE TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
THREE PROPOSED APARTMENTS WITH
OVER ONE THOUSAND BEDROOMS.
AMENITY WITH AMENITIES WOULD
INCLUDE ON SITE VEHICLE AND
BICYCLE PARKING AND STREETSCAPE
IMPROVEMENTS.
THIS PROPOSAL INCLUDES SIX
SLOTS SEVEN THREE SEVEN SEVEN
SEVEN OH NINE TO SEVEN THIRTEEN
SEVEN FIFTEEN SEVEN TWENTY ONE
CHURCH AND TWELVE ZERO EIGHT
WHEELER STREET.
>> THANK YOU.
WITH THAT WE'LL MOVE ON TO
SECTION NUMBER EIGHT WHICH IS
REGULAR BUSINESS I BELIEVE THIS
ONE ACTUALLY IS GOING TO BE THE
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH
STREET RIGHT OF WAY RELEASE
INVOCATION AT THIS TIME I'M
GOING TO BE RECUSING MYSELF AS
THIS MATTER INVOLVES MY
EMPLOYER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
THE
OK SO THIS IS A PETITION
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH
STATE STREET RIGHT OF WAY
RELEASE VACATION REQUEST TO
RELEASE VACATE THREE AREAS
OF ROADWAY RIGHTS FRONTING TWO
EIGHT FOUR FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET INCLUDING A 50 FOOT BY
229 FOOT AND A 50 FOOT BY 50
ONE FOOT ALONG SOUTH STATE
STREET AND A TWENTY SEVEN FOOT
BY 110 FOOT AREA ALONG EAST
EISENHOWER PARKWAY.
IS THERE A PETITION OR
REPRESENTATION FOR THIS?
THERE IS NOT THIS EVENING SO
I'M GOING TO PINCH HIT.
OK, SO WE'LL MOVE TO A STAFF
PRESENTATION PLAN TO LEO.
THANK YOU.
UM, AS MENTIONED, THIS IS THE
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE S THANK
YOU.
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH
STATE STREET UH STREET
MEDICATION RIGHT OF WAY RELEASE
I HAVE UP ON THE SCREEN AN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE ENTIRE
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH
STATE STREET SITE.
THE RELEASE INCLUDES THREE
SEGMENTS OF RIGHT OF WAY THERE
ARE TWO PIECES ON SOUTH STATE
STREET ONE PIECE ON EAST
EISENHOWER.
THESE ARE ASKED TO BE VACATED
SO THAT THEY COULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR FUTURE INFILL
DEVELOPMENT IN THE SEGMENTS
OF RIGHT AWAY WERE ACQUIRED BY
EASEMENT OR BY DEED FOR FUTURE
NEEDS BEYOND THE BEYOND THE
EXISTING ESTABLISHED RIGHT
OF WAY.
BUT THOSE FUTURE NEEDS ARE
UNLIKELY TO HAPPEN.
WE'RE NOT CONSIDERING WIDENING
EISENHOWER ANY FURTHER FOR
EXAMPLE AND THE VACATION
REQUEST IS LIMITED TO THOSE
ADDITIONAL AREAS, NOT THE
TRADITIONAL RIGHT OF WAY ITSELF
.
LET ME PAUSE FOR A MOMENT TO
SWITCH SCREEN SHARING THINGS
.
SO HERE WE GO
>> ALL RIGHT.
OKAY, SO ON THE SCREEN IS THE
SURVEY AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.
BUT FIRST WE HAVE AN AREA SHOWN
IN THE STAFF REPORT HIGHLIGHTED
IN YELLOW IF MY POINTER IS
WORKING THIS AREA IS A FIFTY
ONE BY 50 FOOT AREA THAT IS
OUTSIDE OF OUTSIDE OF THE RIGHT
OF WAY AND THIS AREA JUST BELOW
IT IS A TWO HUNDRED AND TWENTY
NINE FOOT BY 50 FOOT AREA.
THESE TWO PIECES WERE ACQUIRED
ALONG WITH THIS PIECE HERE
WHICH IS NOT SHOWN BECAUSE IT
WAS ALREADY RETURNED BUT THESE
TWO PIECES WERE ACQUIRED IN
1973.
THE AREA S HERE WAS RETURNED IN
2014.
I DO NOT HAVE AN EXPLANATION
FOR WHY THE OTHER PIECES WERE
NOT THESE AREAS HAVE NO
UTILITIES OR SIDEWALK
ENCROACHMENTS IN THEM SO THEY
WILL JUST BE SIMPLY RETURNED TO
THE LAND OWNER UPON APPROVAL
THE NEXT PAGE HERE WE GO HERE
ON THE SCREEN NOW IS A MORE
DETAILED OF THE TWO PIECES AND
THEN HERE ON THIS SCREEN GOES
ALONG WITH PAGE THREE OF THE
STAFF REPORT THIS IS A THREE
HUNDRED AND TEN FOOT BY 50 FOOT
PIECE ALONG EISENHAUER PARKWAY
.
IT WAS ACQUIRED IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY TWO AND A PIECE
FRONTING THE GAS STATION WHICH
WOULD BE HERE WHERE THE CURSOR
IS WAS RETURNED IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY FIVE BUT THE
CORRESPONDING PIECE ON THE
OTHER PROPERTY WAS NOT SO THE
REQUEST IS TO RETURN THIS PIECE
NOW THIS PIECE HAS A LITTLE BIT
OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
UNDERNEATH IT AND THERE'S A
LITTLE BIT OF SIDEWALK
ENCROACHMENT AND SO WE WILL BE
GETTING AN EASEMENT BACK FROM
THE PROPERTY OWNER FOR THE FOR
THOSE PIECES OF PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT AN EASEMENT WOULD BE
DIFFERENT THAN A THEN ROAD
RIGHT OF WAY ROAD RIGHT OF WAY
DOES NOT COUNT TOWARDS YOUR LOT
AREA BUT THE LAND WILL BE
RETURNED BUT WE WOULD RETAIN
SOME EASEMENT SO SETBACKS WOULD
BE TAKEN FROM SETBACKS WOULD BE
TAKEN FROM THE THE RETURN AREA
THE WHOLE SITE LOTERIA WOULD BE
TAKEN FROM WOULD INCLUDE THEN
THE RETURN PIECES AND I DO IN
THE LAST BIT OF THE ATTACHMENT
SHOWS THE EASEMENT THAT WILL BE
RETURNED BACK TO US.
AS YOU CAN SEE WE DO HAVE THE
EASEMENT DOCUMENTS BUT THE
LANGUAGE DIMENSIONS ARE STILL
BEING REVIEWED BY OUR PUBLIC
SERVICES DEPARTMENT AND OUR
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
THIS PROJECT WILL BE THIS IS
FOR A RECOMMENDATION BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SO IT
WILL STILL MOVE ON TO CITY
COUNCIL.
SO WE'LL FINALIZE THE MAKING
SURE THAT EASEMENT HAVE THE I'S
DOTTED AND THE T'S CROSSED BY
THEN STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL SUBJECT TO
CONFIRMING
THOSE EASEMENTS.
BUT WE ARE RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL AS WILL HAVE NO IMPACT
ON VEHICULAR OR PEDESTRIAN
ACCESS AND NO PUBLIC INTEREST
WOULD BE HARMED BY THIS
VACATION.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS IF THEY COME UP.
THANK YOU.
SO WE'LL NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE STREET
VACATION TWO EIGHT FOUR OR FIVE
SOUTH STATE STREET SORRY RIGHT
AWAY VACATION OR FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING ABOUT LEE
BRUSSTAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR YOU CAN USE THE RAISE
AND FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH
THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND IN
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
OH, HANDS RAISED.
LET'S GIVE IT ONE MOMENT.
OK, BECAUSE YOU ARE MOVING SO
EFFICIENTLY THAT SPEAKERS THANK
YOU WILL UPLOADS THE PUBLIC
HEARING COVID THE PROPOSED
MOTION THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE A TWO
EIGHT FOUR OR FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET RIGHT OF WAY RELEASE
ADVOCATION AS PROPOSED SUBJECT
TO CONVEYING AND EASEMENT FOR
EXISTING PUBLIC UTILITIES AND
SIDEWALKS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
M. SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
TISCH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I WON'T MAKE THE NORMAL BIT
LIKE JOKE ABOUT THE VACATIONS
AND WE WE DO TALK ABOUT
VACATIONS A LOT BUT THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME I FEEL LIKE THAT
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT SOME KIND
VACATION OF SOME PIECE
OF PROPERTY WHERE THE
CONVEYANCE OF THAT WAS
RELATIVELY RECENTLY LIKE IT
IT'S NOT LIKE AN ALLEY THAT
FEELS LIKE IT WAS THERE SINCE
TIME IMMEMORIAL LIKE WHERE WE
DIDN'T HAVE RECORDS OF IT SO
DOESN'T LIKE I BRING THAT UP
LIKE THIS CAUGHT MY ATTENTION
BECAUSE I MEAN THE SEVENTIES
AREN'T THAT LONG AGO WHEN WE
SAY THAT THE CITY OBTAINED THE
DEED OR OBTAINED ROADWAY RIGHTS
DID WE PURCHASE THEM?
I AM FAIRLY CERTAIN WE DID NOT
BUT I THE TIMING LINES UP.
I DID NOT DO THE RESEARCH BUT
THE TIMING LINES UP THAT THESE
WERE ACQUIRED AT THE TIME THAT
777 EISENHOWER WAS BUILT.
OK I MEAN THIS MAKES SENSE.
I'VE NEVER ASKED THIS QUESTION
BEFORE BECAUSE IT'S ALWAYS BEEN
LIKE REALLY REALLY OLD.
THE ALLEY WAS DRAWN ON A MAP.
NOBODY EVER USED IT RIGHT.
THE ROAD WAS DRAWN BUT WE NEVER
IT WAS NEVER USED THAT WAY AND
THIS JUST SEEMS RELATIVELY
RECENT AND THE REASON THAT I
BRING IT UP IS WHEN WE HAD THE
DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW EXPENSIVE
IT WOULD BE TO INCREASE THE
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY ALONG KIND
OF THE TAXI ONE CORRIDORS AND
THE IDEA THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO
BUY IT MAKES ME THINK LIKE IF
WE BOUGHT THIS I FEEL LIKE
SOMEBODY SHOULD BACK FROM US
PERSONALLY SO IF IF WE DIDN'T
PURCHASE IT IF IT WAS JUST
CONVEYED AS PART OF THE
DEVELOPMENT IN THIS TOTALLY
MAKES SENSE TO ME.
AND WITHOUT THAT DETAIL LIKE I
DON'T IT DOESN'T TOTALLY
MATTER.
THE BUCK DOESN'T STOP HERE.
IT GOES ON TO CITY COUNCIL.
I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE CITY
COUNCIL TO I WOULD HAVE THAT
ANSWER BEFORE IT GOES TO CITY
COUNCIL MAYBE BECAUSE ANYWAY UM
OTHERWISE YES, THIS ABSOLUTELY
MAKES SENSE.
>> WE DO NOT NEED THAT ROAD TO
BE A GIGANTIC AS THAT ROAD IS
COMMISSIONER WHICH IS JUST FOR
MY EDIFICATION QUESTION.
SO LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT
EISENHAUER FIGURE WHICH IS ON
YOUR STAFF REPORT FIGURE THREE
I DO BELIEVE YOU HAVE IN YELLOW
THE PROPERTY LINES THE THIN
YELLOW LINE THAT RUNS THROUGH
AND SINCE THIS IS ZONE TICK ONE
COULD THIS DEVELOPMENT COME ALL
THE WAY UP TO THAT PROPERTY
LINE OR IS THERE A REQUIRED SET
BACK EISENHOWER IN BOTH
EISENHOWER AND STATE STREET
HAVE BEEN DESIGNATED AS TRANSIT
CORRIDOR STREETS AND SO
DEVELOPMENT ALONG THOSE AREA
THIS IS TESTING MY MEMORY BUT I
SAY DEVELOPMENT ALONG THOSE
STREETS WILL BE TAKEN FROM THE
CURB SO NOT FROM THE PROPERTY
LINE.
RIGHT.
SO WE ALREADY HAVE A BUILT AND
SET BACK BECAUSE OF HOW MUCH
FRONTAGE THERE IS ALREADY
THERE.
>> YOU'VE GOT THE PUBLIC
SIDEWALK AND THEN YOU HAVE
ANOTHER EASEMENT BEFORE YOU
EVEN GET TO THE ROADWAY RIGHT.
>> OK, AND SO AGAIN, JUST FOR
MY EDIFICATION, LET'S IMAGINE
WE WERE ON STADIUM OK WITH THE
CHANGES YOU MADE OK, WELL HOW
DOES IT CHANGE THERE?
>> DOES IT CHANGE AT ALL?
BECAUSE WE WERE SETTING THE WE
SET THE THE SENDING IT BACK
FROM COUNCIL TO PLANNING TO GET
MORE SPACE FOR FUTURE RIGHT
OF WAY WOULD CHANGE IT BECAUSE
THAT ONE WOULD BE SUBJECT TO
THE PROPERTY LINES OR IS IT
STILL SUBJECT TO THE EIGHTEEN
STADIUM BOULEVARD HAS ALSO BEEN
DESIGNATED AS A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR SO THE SETBACKS ON
STADIUM BOULEVARD WILL BE TAKEN
FROM THE CURB.
>> SO PRETTY LIGHT.
OK WHERE THIS DOES HERE IS AS
YOU CAN SEE THE DARK BLUE HAS A
JOG.
YEP.
IN IT AND SO BUT THE CURB DOES
NOT YEAH.
SO THE CURVE THE BACK
MEASUREMENTS WOULD WOULD GO
NORTHWARD UNIFORMLY BUT THEN
YOU'D RUN INTO THE PROPERTY
LINE AND SO THE BUILDING MAY
HAVE TO BE PUSHED BACK EVEN
FURTHER RIGHT NOW ON THE
WESTERN HALF OF THIS PROPERTY.
OK BECAUSE YOU WOULDN'T YOU
CAN'T BUILD IN THE RIGHT WAY.
>> SO THIS IS MAKING THE RIGHT
THIS IS MAKING THE PROPERTY
LINE UNIFORM TO PARALLEL THE
CURB LINE.
>> OK, I THINK I UNDERSTOOD
THAT AND THEN I HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION.
SO I WENT TO THE THE CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING THAT THEY
HAVE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND
THEY INDICATED THAT THEY HAVE
THE GAS STATION NOW INSIDE
THEIR PORTFOLIO.
OK, SO THEN THIS LINE THIS BLUE
LINE THAT YOU DREW MAY CHANGE
IF THEY BROUGHT THAT PROPERTY
IF THEY DID A PARTIAL
ASSEMBLAGE AND BROUGHT THAT
THAT PARCEL INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT.
>> RIGHT.
SO YES, IT WOULD JUST COME
STRAIGHT DOWN ACROSS SO IT
WOULD BE A PERFECT SQUARE.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN WE HAVE BECAUSE IT'S
TGC ONE AND WE MADE THE CHANGE
TO THE SET X IT'S NOW THE CURVE
NOT THE PROPERTY LINE SO THEY
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO COME
STRAIGHT TO THAT THEN YELLOW
LINE THERE THEY'D HAVE TO START
THEIR ACCOUNT AT THE CURB
EITHER ON STATE OR EISENHOWER
AND GO SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
EIGHTEEN AND TWENTY AND TWENTY
EIGHT.
>> YEAH OK YEAH THAT'S GOING TO
BE A LOT OF SETBACK THEN.
WELL BECAUSE YOU ALREADY KNOW
AGAIN THIS IS JUST FOR
RATIFICATION.
YEAH NO CRITICISM AS FAR AS I
CAN TELL.
>> YEAH.
FOR THIS PROPERTY FOR TWENTY
FOUR TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE
STATE STREET WHETHER IT DOES OR
DOESN'T INCLUDE THEN THE GAS
STATION IF WE WERE TO DO A LOT
LAND COMBINATION BUT FOR THIS
PROPERTY THERE SETBACKS ARE
GOING TO BE TAKEN FROM THIS RED
LINE WHICH IS THE CURB AND NOT
THE YELLOW LINE ORANGE LINE
WHICH IS THE UM THE PROPERTY
LINE WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH
THESE PIECES OF RIGHT OF WAY
RELEASE RETURN VACATION WE ARE
REMOVING THE JUGS.
YEP.
AND WE'RE MAKING THE ORANGE
LINE WHICH IS THE PROPERTY LINE
STRAIGHT ACROSS.
RIGHT.
THAT DOESN'T HAVE A DIRECT
IMPACT ON SETBACKS BECAUSE
WE'VE BROKEN THE LINK BETWEEN
PROPERTY LINE AND SET BACK AND
FRONT SET BACK BUT IT DOES MAKE
FOR A LITTLE BIT LARGER SITE
SQUARE FOOTAGE AND IT DOES MAKE
FOR A UNIFORM LOT LINE.
>> YEAH.
AND THEN BUILDINGS DON'T HAVE
TO HAVE A WEIRD DOG IN THEM.
NO, I CAN SEE ALL OF THAT AND I
DON'T HAVE ANY OBJECTIONS TO
THE VACATION.
I WAS JUST INTERESTED IN HOW
THIS LOOK THESE ARE THE THE
CHANGES WE'VE MADE TO TAKE ONE
BECAUSE IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
GOING TO BE IN SOME PLACES IT
COULD BE VERY SIGNIFICANT THIS
BACK LIKE WE DON'T HAVE
MEASUREMENTS OR SCALE HERE TO
FIGURE OUT LIKE YEAH.
YOU KNOW I GINGLES YEAH.
WITH THIS LIKE SEVEN FEET AND
SO NOW WE'RE LOOKING AT YEAH.
TWENTY ONE FEET I THINK
CURRENTLY FROM COLOURBLIND TO
WHERE THE PROPERTY LINE IS NOW
IS ABOUT FORTY FIVE FEET.
YEAH.
SO WHAT THIS DOES THAT ACTUALLY
MAKES IT POSSIBLE BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW THE BUILDING CAN'T BE
CLOSER THAN FORTY FIVE FEET.
RIGHT AND SO WHAT THIS WOULD DO
IS CONTINGENT UPON WORKING OUT
SOME UTILITY IN PUBLIC SIDEWALK
ISSUES ENABLE THE ABILITY TO
MAYBE MEET THAT EIGHTEEN TO
TWENTY EIGHT FEET CLOSER TO THE
CURB IN THIS PARTICULAR
CIRCUMSTANCE REALLY LIKE WHERE
IT IS RIGHT NOW IT'S WAY SET
THAT YOU KNOW AND SO WHAT
THEY'RE TRYING TO DO IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND ACTIVATE THIS
SPACE IT WOULD BE NICE TO BRING
IT ALL THE WAY AS MUCH FORWARD
TO SIDEWALK WHICH IS WHY I WAS
ASKING ABOUT THE THIN YELLOW
LINE WHICH I ASSUMED WAS THE
PROPERTY LINE.
BUT THE SETBACKS
ACTUALLY START
AT THE RED AND THEN GO FROM
THERE.
SO THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS ITEMS FOR
DISCUSSION?
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR THAT
THEN.
OK, THIS IS THE RECOMMENDATION
TO VACATE THE SECTIONS AS
INDICATED COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
YES.
>> MR WHITE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
>> COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
>> COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
>> WHETHER IT BE YES.
COMMISSIONER.
RECOMMENDATION CARRIES LET ME
>> WHETHER IT BE YES.
SEE IF I CAN FIND A NEW
RECOMMENDATION CARRIES LET ME
COMMISSIONER TO FIND
SEE IF I CAN FIND A NEW
COMMISSIONER LEE.
COMMISSIONER TO FIND
>> THANK YOU
FOR YOU
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
OH I'M SURE I DISPENSED WITH
THAT SCRIPT BETTER.
WELL THANK YOU.
YOU HAD YOUR HONOR.
I DO.
I WOULD YOU KNOW WHAT I DO
NEVER MIND THAT KIND OF A DAY
FOR THE OK MOVING ON TO REGULAR
BUSINESS.
>> OH, I'M SORRY.
THIS IS UNFINISHED BUSINESS
REALLY.
YOU GET MY PAPERS TOO IF YOU
ARE.
>> COULD I THANK YOU FOR MOVING
ON TO ITEM NUMBER EIGHT B I DO
SEE THAT THIS IS POSTPONED.
I WILL NOTE THAT THIS IS THIRTY
FIVE TWENTY GREEN COURT PLAN
UNIT DEVELOPMENT TAX AMENDMENTS
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
PROPOSED AMENDMENT SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WILL EXPAND THE
PERMITTED USE OF THE PRINCIPAL
USES OF THE PAUDIE PERMITTED
PRINCIPAL USES WOULD INCLUDE
MEDICAL DENTAL OFFICES WHICH
ARE CURRENTLY PROHIBITED AND
WOULD EXPAND THE DEFINITION
OF HOTEL WHICH CURRENTLY
RESTRICTS HOTEL DEVELOPMENT AND
EXTENDED STAYS WITH ONE HUNDRED
ROOM MAX CAPACITY WOULD PERMIT
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING WHICH IS
CURRENTLY EXCLUDED.
>> PUTI DISTRICT INCLUDES
THIRTY FIVE POINT TWO SIX ACRES
AND THE RECOMMENDATION IS
POSTPONEMENT STAFF.
SO THIS IS AS YOU INDICATED
THIS WAS POSTPONED FROM THE
PREVIOUS ITEM AND I AM SORRY TO
SAY WE DON'T HAVE A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THE
PETITIONERS REQUESTED AN
ADDITIONAL POSTPONEMENT TO
FEBRUARY TWENTY SECOND THEY ARE
STILL CONTINUE TO WORK I THINK
WITH SOME OF THE NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY OWNERS REFINING THEIR
PROPOSED AMENDMENT REQUEST
BASED ON SOME OF THE FIRST
FEEDBACK THAT THE COMMISSION
GAVE THEM.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT THIS
PARTICULAR PROPOSAL WAS ALSO
INCLUDED ORIGINALLY IN CHANGES
TO THE TCE ONE IN PLYMOUTH ROAD
.
I GAVE YOU SOME BAD ADVICE THAT
YOU COULD ADD THAT AT THE TABLE
AND THE COUNCIL TOOK ACTION ON
THAT BAD ADVICE AND PULLED
THOSE PROPERTIES OUT OF THE
TABLE OUT OF THE RECOMMENDED
ZONING.
>> SO I HAVE A QUESTION THAT
HAS BEEN RAISED ABOUT SORT
OF OUR INTENTION TO SORT
OF RECONSIDER THAT AND FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE I REALLY WANT TO
SEE THAT THIS PETITION OR
APPLICATION IS RESOLVED BEFORE
ANOTHER REZONING PETITION IS
PUT FORWARD BY STAFF THAT A
CHANGE BUT THAT'S I JUST WANTED
TO JUST SORT OF DAYLIGHT THAT'S
MY CURRENT TAKE ON WHY YOU ARE
THIS IS STILL AN ONGOING AGENDA
.
YOU WILL ALSO NOTE THAT THE
PETITIONERS ARE NOT SUPPORTIVE
OF THAT TAKE ONE ZONING.
AND SO I THINK IT IS
APPROPRIATE TO GIVE THEM SORT
OF OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT
EVENTUALLY IN THIS CASE ON THE
TWENTY SECOND PROPOSED
AMENDMENT FOR THE PUDI
REGULATIONS.
SO IT IS ON THE AGENDA.
I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT YOU HOLD
A PUBLIC HEARING BUT YOU DON'T
HAVE TO BUT IT IS TYPICAL FOR
US TO HONOR SUCH REQUESTS TO
GIVE PETITIONERS TIME AND WOULD
RECOMMEND POSTPONEMENT TO THE
TWENTY SECOND AT THE CONCLUSION
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
>> SOUNDS GOOD THANK YOU.
SO WE WILL GO TO PUBLIC HEARING
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE THIRTY FIVE
TWENTY GREEN COURT PD AMENDMENT
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL WILL
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
THE MEMO PARTICIPANTS SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE USE A
RAISE HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK THE PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN INTERMEDIATING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF ALSO SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED YOUR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA,
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THANKS TO YOUR
LEAGUE AND GARBER AGAIN KNOWING
THAT EVERY PUBLIC HEARING MIGHT
BE MY LAST I HAVE TO TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY ALTHOUGH IT'S NOT
CLEAR TO ME THAT STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING AT REZONING PUBLIC
HEARINGS BE HANDLED BY WRIGHT
DEVELOPMENTS.
IT'S NOT CLEAR FROM THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
ANYWAY NOT SEEING THE PUDI
AMENDMENT I DON'T HAVE MUCH TO
SAY ABOUT IT TONIGHT.
JUST A REMINDER THAT IN
PREVIOUS DISCUSSIONS AS I
REMEMBER THE DEVELOPER DID
AGREE IN PRINCIPLE THAT NEW
BUILDINGS ON THIS SITE WOULD BE
ALL ELECTRIC OR AT LEAST AGREED
TO STRONGLY CONSIDER THAT.
SO I HOPE YOU SEE THAT WITH THE
PUDI AMENDMENTS THAT COME BACK
IN FEBRUARY.
>> SO I'LL HAVE MORE TO SAY
THEN ASSUMING THERE'S A PUBLIC
HEARING AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
I'M SEEING NO ONE ELSE IN THE
AUDIENCE.
>> ARE THERE ANY REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS?
NO, THERE ARE NOT.
>> GOT IT WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL MOVE
TO POSTPONE THE PEOPLE WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE DISCUSSION UM DO I
SEE ANY OBJECTIONS TO I WILL
PROPOSE AND I WILL MOVE TO
POSTPONE THIS ITEM TO A VOTE TO
HAVE A SECOND.
UM I WANT TO BE CLEAR WE'RE
POSTPONING TO FEBRUARY TWENTY
SECOND YES TO POSTPONING TO
FEBRUARY TWENTY SECONDS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
FOR A VOTE UM IF ALL IN FAVOR
SAY AY AY ANY OBJECTIONS.
>> IF NOT THIS IS THE MOTION
PASSES AND THIS IS POSTPONED TO
FEBRUARY 22ND.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO OTHER
REGULAR BUSINESS.
>> GIVE ME ONE SECOND AND OTHER
BUSINESS.
SO ARE THERE OTHER MOVING ON TO
SECTION NINE OTHER BUSINESS ARE
THERE ANY OTHER BUSINESS THAT
OH, I DON'T SEE ANYTHING ON THE
AGENDA.
I'LL BECOME IT.
OK, WE'LL MOVE ON TO SECTION
NUMBER TEN.
THANK YOU.
UM, THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUES THAT'S
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE LIVE BY
PHONE OR RAISE AND FEATURE IF A
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AN ENTRY MEETING
EIGHTY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
THAT WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
RAISE YOUR HANDS USING THE LAST
THREE MINUTES OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND ONE
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA A MUTE IN THE BACKGROUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
SEEING ONE ARE THERE ANYBODY
ELSE LOOKING TO UM SPEAK
BLUNTLY?
I MEAN JUST GIVE IT ONE MOMENT
AND THE MOMENT HAS PASSED NO
SPEAKERS WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSAL BUSINESS?
YES.
COMMISSION WHICH I JUST WANT TO
PICK UP MR. GARBER'S COMMENT I
TO READ THE DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR UH ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT THAT HE
DELIVERED TO COUNCIL ENTITLED A
NEW APPROACH TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND I WONDERED
ABOUT THE CHANGES BECAUSE I
THOUGHT THE RULES FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS WERE SET AT THE STATE
LEVEL THERE, NOT SAT AT THIS
TABLE AND SO COULD YOU CLARIFY
THAT FOR ME, MR. LEONARD?
>> THE STATE DOES SET SOME
PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS BUT
HERE IN THE CITY WE HAVE ADDED
TO THOSE SO ANY LEGISLATIVE
ACTION WHICH IS A REZONING OR
PUDI REQUIRES A PUBLIC HEARING
TO BE HELD THAT'S DICTATED BY
STATE LAW AND HAS REQUIRED
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS WHERE WE
NOTIFY PROPERTY OWNERS WITHIN A
CERTAIN RADIUS OF THAT THAT'S
STIPULATED BY STATE LAW.
STATE LAW DOES NOT STIPULATE
THAT THE SAME IS REQUIRED FOR
ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS SUCH
AS SITE PLAN REVIEW AND SO OUR
LOCAL ORDINANCE HOWEVER DOES
REQUIRE THAT WHENEVER SOME ITEM
COMES BEFORE THIS BODY IT
REQUIRES A PUBLIC HEARING WHEN
IT'S THOSE TYPES
OF APPLICATIONS.
SO THAT'S THAT'S A CASE WHERE
OUR LOCAL REQUIREMENTS HAVE
GONE ABOVE
STATE REQUIREMENTS A
FOLLOW UP SO THAT MEANS THAT ON
A BY RIGHT DEVELOPMENT THAT
WE'VE ADDED A PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THE DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR IS SUGGESTING
THAT THAT IS REMOVED BECAUSE IT
ALSO REQUIRES A NOTICE SO IT
REQUIRE THE NOTICE OF A PUBLIC
HEARING BECAUSE A PUBLIC
HEARING IS REQUIRED THAT HAS TO
MEET THAT NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
AND SO IT HAS TO BE PUBLISHED
IN A LOT.
I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR HIM.
NO, I'M JUST THINKING OF IT AS
IT IMPACTS THE TABLE.
SO BECAUSE THERE IS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON IT ADMINISTRATOR
OF SITE PLAN THAT BY RIGHT
SHOULD GO FORWARD IF UNLESS IT
DOESN'T MEET THE CRITERIA
CORRECT.
THAT THEN HAS A CASCADING
EFFECT BECAUSE IT REQUIRES A
TEN DAY NOTICE OR SOME SOME
KIND OF NOTICE.
YEAH, IT'S ACTUALLY ABOUT IT'S
ABOUT THREE WEEKS PLUS BECAUSE
WHAT IT MEANS IS WE HAVE TO
PUBLISH AND SO WE HAVE TO SEND
THAT PUBLICATION HAS TO BE
PUBLISHED TWO WEEKS IN ADVANCE
UNFORTUNATELY WITH THE
FREQUENCY OF PRINTED PAPERS
HERE THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN WITH A
LOT OF FREQUENCY.
SO WE ARE TYPICALLY YOU KNOW,
TODAY I JUST SHARED WITH YOU WE
WERE TODAY WITH SORT OF OUR
FINAL DEADLINE TO DETERMINE
WHAT WE WOULD BE PUBLISHING FOR
THE FEBRUARY 6TH AGENDA.
AND SO WHAT THAT MEANS IS TO BE
IN THAT TIME FRAME WE HAVE TO
HAVE A PROJECT READY AND IT
DOESN'T GIVE THE FLEXIBILITY TO
NECESSARILY WRAP UP SOMETHING
AND GET THAT ONTO THAT FEBRUARY
6TH AGENDA.
SO THAT'S KIND OF AN EXAMPLE
OF IT AND I THINK ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I'VE DEFINITELY HAD
SOME CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR AND YOU
KNOW, I THINK PART OF IT IS IS
WHERE WE WANT TO PUT THAT TIME
,YOU KNOW, DO BECAUSE WE SPEND
A LOT OF TIME ORGANIZING FAMILY
PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
COUNCIL IN THE PAST WITH SITE
PLANS.
WOULD THAT TIME BE BETTER SPENT
WITH PUBLIC HEARINGS ON
ORDINANCE UPDATES AND CODE AND
UPDATES AND POLICY UPDATES THAT
ARE SETTING THOSE RULES FOR THE
ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS?
SO YOU KNOW, LOTS OF I DON'T I
DON'T I DON'T SIT HERE AND SAY
THAT THERE'S A RIGHT OR WRONG
BUT I THINK THOSE ARE SOME
OF THE BALANCES THAT ARE BEING
CONTEMPLATED.
BUT AGAIN BUT IT WOULDN'T DENY
A MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC LIKE MR.
GARBER FROM STILL SPEAKING TO
FLIGHT PLAN ADMINISTRATOR
BECAUSE THERE ARE TWO ARPATEPE
ENTITIES IN EVERY MEETING AT
THE BEGINNING AND AT THE END.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO IT WOULDN'T PREVENT THAT THE
THE ONLY CHANGE WOULD BE THE
NOTICE.
CORRECT.
SO MR. GARBER WOULDN'T GET A
THREE WEEK NOTICE THAT BY RIGHT
SIGHT PLAN WAS COMING BUT MR.
BUTLER WOULD STILL BE ABLE TO
SPEAK TWICE DEPENDING HOW ANY
CHANGE WAS CONSIDERED.
>> THERE MIGHT BE OTHER CHANGES
THAT ARE CONSIDERED BUT YEAH,
THAT'S CORRECT.
REALLY I DON'T WANT TO GET
AHEAD OF THINGS AND IF I AM
JUST TELL ME TO BE QUIET.
>> BUT I THINK THE BIGGER PIECE
THAT THIS REPORT IDENTIFIES IS
THAT WE OVERBURDEN OUR SITE
PLANS HIS POINT THE POINT THAT
MR. FOURNIER MAKES IN THE
REPORT IS THAT WE REQUIRE A LOT
OF ENGINEERING TO HAVE HAPPENED
AT THE SITE PLAN STAGE AND I
THINK I'M PARAPHRASE ING THE
SITE PLAN IS SUPPOSED TO BE A
CONCEPTUAL PLAN.
YOU ANSWER BASIC QUESTIONS SUCH
AS ALLOWABLE USE UNDER ZONING
AND ACCORDING WHO WOULD AND
ACCORDING TO DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
IT'S NOT UNTIL THE CIVIL PLAN
THAT YOU GET INTO SOLID WASTE
AND UTILITIES AND MORE AND SO A
BIGGER CHANGE THAT HE IS
SUGGESTING AND AGAIN I DON'T I
THINK THIS PLAN IS SUPPOSED TO
OR THIS REPORT IS SUPPOSED TO
ISSUE IN A COMMITTEE THAT'S
SUPPOSED TO THEN RECOMMEND
CHANGES.
SO IT'S THE USUAL WAY THAT
GOVERNMENTS WORK.
BUT BUT I THINK THAT THE BIGGER
THING IS THAT SITE PLAN REVIEW
ITSELF WOULD BE SIMPLER THAN
WHAT WE HAVE IT NOW AND LESS
HUNG UP AND CONTINGENT ON OTHER
PIECES OF THE CITY RESPOND.
AND SO RIGHT NOW SOME OF WHAT
IT FEELS LIKE IS TO TALK ABOUT
INCYTE PLANS THOSE THINGS MIGHT
NOT BE IN THE PLANS THAT WE
SEE.
IF I'M UNDERSTANDING YOU'RE
NODDING OR MAYBE YOU'RE
NODDING.
>> I SHOULDN'T HAVE LET YOU
TALK.
NO, NO.
I'VE YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT IS
A PART OF THE REPORT JUST AS AS
AN EXAMPLE, THERE ARE OTHER
COMMUNITIES WHO ACTUALLY
REQUIRE EVERY SITE PLAN TO GO
THROUGH TWO STAGES.
THEY HAVE TO DO A PRELIMINARY
SITE PLAN APPROVAL AND THEY
HAVE TO DO A FINAL SITE PLAN
APPROVAL AND THAT WHAT THAT
DOES IS IT DOES SORT
OF BIFURCATES SOME OF THE
DETAILED ANALYSIS AND DETAILED
WORK AND FRANKLY COST
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT SITE
BEFORE SOMEBODY HAS A SENSE
OF IMPROVEMENT OR ENTITLEMENT
HERE IN THE CITY.
OUR POLICIES HAVE FLIP THAT ON
EASIER TO SAY LIKE HEY, WE WANT
TO PROVIDE A ONE STEP THING
WHICH IS GOOD.
BUT WHAT THAT THEN REQUIRES IS
A LOT OF UPFRONT DETAILED COST
AND ANALYSIS THAT IS PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT AND ALSO I DON'T
WANT TO SAY IT'S A BARRIER
OF ENTRY BUT IT IS COSTLY AND
IT MIGHT IMPACT THE TYPES
OF DEVELOPERS THAT MIGHT BE
ABLE TO APPROACH THAT IF
THEY'RE NOT REALLY WELL
RESOURCED IN ORDER TO BE ABLE
TO ACCOMPLISH THAT VERSUS
SOMEBODY WHO MIGHT BE ABLE TO
GET TO A STAGE OF APPROVAL THAT
OPENS UP THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT AND
DETAILED ANALYSIS.
SO I THINK THAT IS AN IMPORTANT
PART OF THE STUDY AND SO I JUST
WANT TO POINT OUT PART OF IT IS
JUST HOW THE CITY THINKS ABOUT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WE HAVE AS
A CITY I DON'T THINK IT'S BEEN
SOMETHING THAT I'VE SEEN THAT
WE INVEST IN VERY SPECIFICALLY
SOME OTHER COMMUNITIES DO WITH
YOU DEDICATED RESOURCES TOWARDS
THAT END.
MAYBE IT'S BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN
A SENSE THAT WE DON'T NEED TO
WHETHER THAT'S TRUE OR NOT, I
THINK IT'S A QUESTION ABOUT
WHETHER WHAT KIND OF UM WHAT
KIND OF OUTCOMES DO WE GET AND
WHAT KIND OF OUTCOMES WOULD
CHANGE IF WE DID MAKE SOME
OF THOSE INVESTMENTS.
SO I THINK THAT'S A BIG PART
OF THE REPORT AS WELL.
IF THOSE FOR THOSE OF YOU
HAVEN'T SEEN IT AS ANYBODY NOT
SEEN IT, I'M HAPPY TO I'LL GET
THAT SHARED WITH EVERYBODY SO
YOU CAN SEE THAT AS WELL.
OK, AND ERIC
I MEAN I READ IT
WHEN IT CAME OUT BUT AS IT
HASN'T BEEN PART OF OUR
PACKAGE.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER, JUST SOME OF THE
DISCIPLINE HEARD THESE THINGS
WHEN THEY DID AND IT HE HAD
LIKE THREE DAYS BEFORE
CHRISTMAS WHICH MIGHT READ IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE CONVERSATION
REGARDING THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
I APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
POST BUSINESS PEOPLE LIKE TO
DISCUSS SEEING NOTHING ELSE.
>> I WILL MOVE TO SECTION
TWELVE WHICH IS A MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHICH IS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU